This repo contains three main folders:

1. LAFP - Lazy runtime of Lazy Fat Pandas
2. SCIRPy - static analysis tool for Lazy Fat Pandas Programs
3. Benchmark programs used in the the recent paper


Benchmark:
It contains 10 program folder used as benchmark for LaFP. Each folder contains 12 programs:
1. Pandas version (original)
2. Dask version (manually rewritten from Pandas)
3. Modin version (minor rewrites from Pandas)
4. Pandas on Spark version (minor rewrites from Pandas)
5. Ibis(Ibis DuckDB) version (manually rewritten from Pandas)
6. Polars(Ibis Polars) version (manually rewritten from Pandas)
7. LaFP optimized with Pandas backend (lafp_pandas)
8. LaFP optimized with Dask backend (lafp_dask)
9. LaFP optimized with Modin backend (lafp_modin)
10. LaFP optimized with Pandas on Spark backend (lafp_spark)
11. LaFP optimized with Ibis(DuckDB) backend (lafp_ibis)
12. LaFP optimized with Ibis(Polars) backend (lafp_polars)

The LaFP optimized programs are as generated by our optimizer, after just in time static analysis. Note that just in time static analysis does gets the dataframe column data types when data source is known at compile time, and metadata is available for the data source, and passes the column types to read_csv() in such cases. The LaFP run time also does its own check for datatypes from the metadata if the data source/datatypes cannot be inferred at compile time.

MODIN and DASK are executed in default configuration (workers and thread), whether natively or with LaFP. Both MODIN and DASK use available system resources in default configuration on a PC which in our case was 6 cores/12 threads (Ryzen 3600) and 32 GB RAM.

